# Data-Analytics-Project
My Project focuses on data analysis in relation to a Healthcare Data set regarding Life expectancy and the factors which impact it and a country overall. I have implemented a variety of techniques including, Excel (formulas and functions), Power BI and SQL to showcase all the information collected. 


In regards to the data and Excel, focusing on just one factor was difficult as a lot of information was important to understanding how high or low a countries life expectancy is. So i started to look for trends within the health issues and diseases.
I was able to find that the higher a countries life expectancy, the lower the adult mortality rate was. However many countries which had a high alcohol rate still seemed to have a high life expectancy, proving that it could be related to the year and that as the years go up, deaths relating to alcohol decrease, with countries developing their healthcare system. It could also be highlighted that the data set had a lot of problems with repeated countries showing up, so i highlighted that aswell. 
I was also able to notice the trends in which countries had the highest levels of Hepatitis B and how that contrasts to the life expectancy


On Power Bi i chose to create 6 charts to highlight as much findings as possible in relation to the life expectancy. This helped me with cross referencing them against each other to understand which factors were impacting life expectancy the most. I was able to highlight that the life expectancy doesnt really correlate to infant deaths, and how they dont impact the number in a way Hepatitis or measeles would. I did also look at the more developed countries when highlighting this finding to show they had a lower rate in comaprison to the developing countries.

I also chose to look at the population and gdps of the countries, which i think was being overshadowed by the alchol percentage. The lower the gdp was the lower the population of the country was. Because of this, a lower population would directly link to a lower life expectancy, suggesting that these developing countries had much of a lower average than those already developed. This could aslo highlight the fact that a countries life expectancy correlates with the economic status it holds, thus more economic value  and resources leads to a country being able to work through these health diseases and issues, in compariosn to countries whcih are more deprived. It was apparent throughout that the higher a countries polio rate the higher the measle rate would turn out to be aswell. Oman had the higest case of both 
